<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:connect="http://connect.ucles.org.uk/ns/ConnectDeliveryEngine" connect:class="assessmentItem" connect:identifier="IELTSREL-SOTIEAR3020A-0-0" xml:lang="en"><head><title role="item"></title><link href="../css/jquery-ui.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/base.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/access.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/banner.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/navigation.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/tools.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/main.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/item.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/calc.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/chart.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/notepad.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/instructions.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/jquery.contextMenu.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/custom.css" rel="stylesheet"/><connect:timeLimits maxTime=""/></head><body><div connect:class="itemBody" connect:itemNumber="1" connect:partNumber="N/A" connect:sectionName="N/A"><div connect:class="container"><div connect:class="rubricBlock" connect:view="candidate"><p><span connect:author-class="fs14pt"><strong>Sample Academic Reading <i>Summary Completion (selecting from a list of words or phrases)<br/></i></strong></span></p></div></div><div connect:class="container" connect:id="mainContent"><div connect:author-class="container genericTwoColumn split-5050"><div connect:author-class="left"><p><span connect:author-class="fs14pt"><strong>'This Marvellous Invention'</strong></span><br/><span connect:author-class="fs11pt"><i><br/></i></span>Of all mankind&#8217;s manifold creations, language must take pride of place. Other inventions &#8211; the wheel, agriculture, sliced bread &#8211; may have transformed our material existence, but the advent of language is what made us human. Compared to language, all other inventions pale in significance, since everything we have ever achieved depends on language and originates from it. Without language, we could never have embarked on our ascent to unparalleled power over all other animals, and even over nature itself. <br/><br/>But language is foremost not just because it came first. In its own right it is a tool of extraordinary sophistication, yet based on an idea of ingenious simplicity: &#8216;this marvellous invention of composing out of twenty-five or thirty sounds that infinite variety of expressions which, whilst having in themselves no likeness to what is in our mind, allow us to disclose to others its whole secret, and to make known to those who cannot penetrate it all that we imagine, and all the various stirrings of our soul&#8217;. This was how, in 1660, the renowned French grammarians of the Port-Royal abbey near Versailles distilled the essence of language, and no one since has celebrated more eloquently the magnitude of its achievement. Even so, there is just one flaw in all these hymns of praise, for the homage to language&#8217;s unique accomplishment conceals a simple yet critical incongruity. Language is mankind&#8217;s greatest invention &#8211; except, of course, that it was never invented. This apparent paradox is at the core of our fascination with language, and it holds many of its secrets.</p></div><div connect:author-class="right"><div connect:author-class="container generic"><p><strong>Questions 1</strong> &#8211; <strong>4</strong><br/>Complete the summary using the list of words. Choose the correct word and move it into the gap<strong><i>.</i></strong><br/></p><div connect:author-class="inlineGapText split-none presentation-ortn-vertical" connect:class="gapMatchInteraction blockInteraction interaction" connect:maxChoices="" connect:responseIdentifier="IELTSREL-SOTIEAR3020A-0-1"><div connect:author-class="left" connect:class="gapsStimulus"><p connect:author-class="align-center"><span connect:author-class="fs12pt"><strong>The importance of language</strong></span></p><p>The wheel is one invention that has had a major impact on <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap1"><span class="questionNumber">1</span></span>  aspects of life, but no impact has been as <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap2"><span class="questionNumber">2</span></span>  as that of language. Language is very <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap3"><span class="questionNumber">3</span></span> , yet composed of just a small number of sounds.<br/><br/>Language appears to be <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap4"><span class="questionNumber">4</span></span>  to use. However, its sophistication is often overlooked.</p></div><div connect:author-class="right" connect:class="gapChoices"><ul class="clearfix" connect:class="drops"><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="A" connect:matchMax="1">difficult</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="B" connect:matchMax="1">complex</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="C" connect:matchMax="1">original</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="D" connect:matchMax="1">admired</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="E" connect:matchMax="1">material</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="F" connect:matchMax="1">easy</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="G" connect:matchMax="1">fundamental</li></ul></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></body></html>