<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:connect="http://connect.ucles.org.uk/ns/ConnectDeliveryEngine" connect:class="assessmentItem" connect:identifier="IELTSREL-AIR3AC0020EVO-0-0" xml:lang="en"><head><title role="item"></title><link href="../css/jquery-ui.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/base.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/access.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/banner.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/navigation.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/tools.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/main.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/item.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/calc.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/chart.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/notepad.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/instructions.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/jquery.contextMenu.css" rel="stylesheet"/><link href="../css/custom.css" rel="stylesheet"/><connect:timeLimits maxTime=""/></head><body><div connect:class="itemBody" connect:itemNumber="1" connect:partNumber="N/A" connect:sectionName="N/A"><div connect:class="container"><div connect:class="rubricBlock" connect:view="candidate"><p><span connect:author-class="fs14pt"><strong>Sample Academic Reading <i>Matching Sentence Endings</i></strong></span></p></div></div><div connect:class="container" connect:id="mainContent"><div connect:author-class="container genericTwoColumn split-5050"><div connect:author-class="left"><p><span connect:author-class="fs14pt"><strong>Science in 16th-century London</strong></span><br/><span connect:author-class="fs11pt"><i><br/></i><span connect:author-class="fs12pt">The Jewel House, </span><i><span connect:author-class="fs12pt">a new book by historical researcher and author Deborah Harkness</span><span connect:author-class="fs12pt">.</span></i></span></p><p>Deborah Harkness devotes her elegant and erudite new book, <i>The Jewel House</i>, to the scientific community in 16th-century London. She (rightly) argues that it is thanks to the imaginative collective efforts of the urban scientists that London became the melting pot in which a new mathematical and experimental culture crystallized.<br/><br/>Harkness is known for her ingenuity as a researcher and her historical empathy. In <i>The Jewel House</i>, Harkness turns her skills on the city of London as a whole with surprising and fascinating results. She began her research by asking herself a new question: not what caused scientific revolution but what the names <i>science</i> and <i>scientist</i> meant in 16th-century London. Then she collected a vast range of sources, from printed books to scientific instruments and notebooks, and recorded, in a relational database, information on the men and women who produced them.<br/><br/>Every chapter of <i>The Jewel House</i> charts the activities of a particular community. Harkness leads us through the streets of London, showing us, neighborhood by neighborhood, where the major forms of natural knowledge found homes. For example, apothecaries settled in Lime Street, in what is now the City, where they created a dense network of shops and gardens. Clockmakers, both native craftsmen and many from overseas, clustered in several parishes near St Paul&#8217;s Cathedral. The once wealthy merchant, Clement Draper, even managed to transform the King&#8217;s Bench prison in Southwark, where he served time as a debtor, into a center of research and discussion. By the end of the book Harkness has mapped London&#8217;s scientific communities with astonishing precision.<br/><br/>Moreover, when Harkness reconstructs these groups, she provides not traditional, static accounts of their theories, but dynamic analyses of their practices as these developed over time. In many cases, she makes clear, the alchemists of Elizabethan London already understood that knowledge of nature had to rest not on authority but on familiarity through practice.<br/><br/>In one crucial respect, Harkness argues, many of the 16th-century London scientists differed from the later ones of the 17th century. They saw themselves less as individuals out to gain fame, than as members of larger textual communities bent on exchanging and compiling information. The passages in which Harkness analyzes the 16th-century practices of note-taking and communication are among the most novel and informative in this fine book. She shows that they adopted the textual information processing methods of humanist scholarship to radically new ends.<br/><br/>In this book, Harkness has charted the local and cosmopolitan worlds of science in Elizabethan London with a learning, precision and intelligence that compel admiration. Moreover, she has crafted a complex and effective new analytical mechanism which may transform the practices of historians of early modern science.</p></div><div connect:author-class="right"><div connect:author-class="container generic"><p connect:author-class="subRubric cbview"><strong>Questions </strong><strong>1</strong> &#8211; <strong>3<br/></strong>Complete each sentence with the correct ending. Choose the correct ending and move it into the gap.</p><div connect:author-class="inlineGapText split-none presentation-ortn-vertical-block" connect:class="gapMatchInteraction blockInteraction interaction" connect:maxChoices="" connect:responseIdentifier="IELTSREL-AIR3AC0020EVO-0-1"><div connect:author-class="left" connect:class="gapsStimulus"><p>Harkness&#8217;s research method was different to that of other writers because <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap1"><span class="questionNumber">1</span></span> <br/><br/>Harkness&#8217;s reconstruction of the 16th-century London scientific groups was new because&#160;<span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap2"><span class="questionNumber">2</span></span> <br/><br/>Harkness shows that the 16th-century London scientists were innovative because <span connect:class="gap associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="Gap3"><span class="questionNumber">3</span></span> </p></div><div connect:author-class="right" connect:class="gapChoices"><ul class="clearfix" connect:class="gapChoicesContainer"><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="A" connect:matchMax="1">she has the greatest knowledge of Elizabethan London.</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="B" connect:matchMax="1">she started by seeking to understand how basic terms were used in the past.</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="C" connect:matchMax="1">they worked as individuals rather than as a group.</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="D" connect:matchMax="1">she examined how their methods evolved and changed.</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="E" connect:matchMax="1">Clement Draper was the best scientist of his time.</li><li connect:class="gapText gapChoice associableChoice choice" connect:identifier="F" connect:matchMax="1">they used old ways of analysing written information for new purposes.</li></ul></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></body></html>